README.md, before:

# Build a Streaming Data Pipeline in Python

In this hands-on lab, you'll build a production-ready streaming data pipeline using Python and Snowflake's new Rowset API. Learn how to efficiently ingest real-time data streams into Snowflake, create automated aggregations, and visualize insights through an interactive Streamlit application. You'll walk away with practical experience in modern data engineering techniques and a functional end-to-end pipeline that can handle continuous data flows at scale.

Docs for Snowpipie Streaming Rowset API Private Preview: https://docs.snowflake.com/en/LIMITEDACCESS/snowpipe-streaming-rowset-api/rowset-api-intro

## Database Setup

Create a database, schema, warehouse, role, and user called INGEST in your Snowflake account.

```sql
USE ROLE ACCOUNTADMIN;

CREATE WAREHOUSE IF NOT EXISTS STREAMING_INGEST;
CREATE ROLE IF NOT EXISTS STREAMING_INGEST;
GRANT USAGE ON WAREHOUSE STREAMING_INGEST TO ROLE STREAMING_INGEST;
GRANT OPERATE ON WAREHOUSE STREAMING_INGEST TO ROLE STREAMING_INGEST;
CREATE DATABASE IF NOT EXISTS STREAMING_INGEST;
USE DATABASE STREAMING_INGEST;
CREATE SCHEMA IF NOT EXISTS STREAMING_INGEST;
USE SCHEMA STREAMING_INGEST;
GRANT OWNERSHIP ON DATABASE STREAMING_INGEST TO ROLE STREAMING_INGEST;
GRANT OWNERSHIP ON SCHEMA STREAMING_INGEST.STREAMING_INGEST TO ROLE STREAMING_INGEST;

CREATE USER STREAMING_INGEST LOGIN_NAME='STREAMING_INGEST' DEFAULT_WAREHOUSE='STREAMING_INGEST', DEFAULT_NAMESPACE='STREAMING_INGEST.STREAMING_INGEST', DEFAULT_ROLE='STREAMING_INGEST', TYPE=SERVICE;
GRANT ROLE STREAMING_INGEST TO USER STREAMING_INGEST;
GRANT ROLE STREAMING_INGEST TO USER <YOUR_USERNAME>;

```

To generate a key pair for the INGEST user, run the following in your shell:

```sh
openssl genrsa 2048 | openssl pkcs8 -topk8 -inform PEM -out rsa_key.p8 -nocrypt
openssl rsa -in rsa_key.p8 -pubout -out rsa_key.pub
PUBK=`cat ./rsa_key.pub | grep -v KEY- | tr -d '\012'`
echo "ALTER USER STREAMING_INGEST SET RSA_PUBLIC_KEY='$PUBK';"
```

Run the sql from the output to set the RSA_PUBLIC_KEY for the INGEST user.

```sql
USE ROLE ACCOUNTADMIN;
ALTER USER STREAMING_INGEST SET RSA_PUBLIC_KEY=...;
```

Create the table and stream to land data from the API.

```sql
USE ROLE STREAMING_INGEST;
USE DATABASE STREAMING_INGEST;
USE SCHEMA STREAMING_INGEST;

CREATE OR REPLACE TABLE RESORT_TICKET(TXID varchar(255), RFID varchar(255), RESORT varchar(255), PURCHASE_TIME datetime, PRICE_USD DECIMAL(7,2), EXPIRATION_TIME date, DAYS number, NAME varchar(255), ADDRESS variant, PHONE varchar(255), EMAIL varchar(255), EMERGENCY_CONTACT variant);

CREATE OR REPLACE PIPE RESORT_TICKET_PIPE AS
COPY INTO RESORT_TICKET
FROM TABLE (
      DATA_SOURCE (
      TYPE => 'STREAMING'
  )
)
MATCH_BY_COLUMN_NAME=CASE_SENSITIVE;

CREATE OR REPLACE TABLE SEASON_PASS(TXID varchar(255), RFID varchar(255), PURCHASE_TIME datetime, PRICE_USD DECIMAL(7,2), EXPIRATION_TIME date, NAME varchar(255), ADDRESS variant, PHONE varchar(255), EMAIL varchar(255), EMERGENCY_CONTACT variant);

CREATE OR REPLACE PIPE SEASON_PASS_PIPE AS
COPY INTO SEASON_PASS
FROM TABLE (
      DATA_SOURCE (
      TYPE => 'STREAMING'
  )
)
MATCH_BY_COLUMN_NAME=CASE_SENSITIVE;

CREATE OR REPLACE TABLE LIFT_RIDE(TXID varchar(255), RFID varchar(255), RESORT varchar(255), LIFT varchar(255), RIDE_TIME datetime);

CREATE OR REPLACE PIPE LIFT_RIDE_PIPE AS
COPY INTO LIFT_RIDE
FROM TABLE (
      DATA_SOURCE (
      TYPE => 'STREAMING'
  )
)
MATCH_BY_COLUMN_NAME=CASE_SENSITIVE;

```

To get the private key for this user run the following in your shell:

```sh
PRVK=`cat ./rsa_key.p8`
echo "PRIVATE_KEY=\"$PRVK\""
```

Copy the .env.example to .env and modify the variables in your project

```
SNOWFLAKE_ACCOUNT=<ACCOUNT_HERE>
SNOWFLAKE_USER=STREAMING_INGEST
PRIVATE_KEY="-----BEGIN PRIVATE KEY-----
YOUR...
....KEY
....HERE==
-----END PRIVATE KEY-----
"
```

## Building the generator

```sh
docker compose build
```

## Starting the generator

```sh
docker compose up
```

## Create some dynamic table to prepare data for reporting

```sql

CREATE OR REPLACE DYNAMIC TABLE LIFT_RIDES_BY_DAY TARGET_LAG='10 minutes' WAREHOUSE = STREAMING_INGEST AS
SELECT COUNT(*) as c, RESORT, LIFT, DATE_TRUNC(day, RIDE_TIME) as d FROM LIFT_RIDE GROUP BY all;

CREATE OR REPLACE DYNAMIC TABLE BUSIEST_LIFTS TARGET_LAG='10 minutes' WAREHOUSE = STREAMING_INGEST AS
SELECT RESORT, LIFT, c FROM LIFT_RIDES_BY_DAY where D = current_date() order by c desc limit 10;

CREATE OR REPLACE DYNAMIC TABLE RESORT_VISITORS_BY_DAY TARGET_LAG='10 minutes' WAREHOUSE = STREAMING_INGEST AS
SELECT COUNT(DISTINCT RFID) as c, RESORT, DATE_TRUNC(day, RIDE_TIME) as d FROM LIFT_RIDE GROUP BY all;

CREATE OR REPLACE DYNAMIC TABLE RESORT_REVENUE_BY_DAY TARGET_LAG='10 minutes' WAREHOUSE = STREAMING_INGEST AS
SELECT SUM(PRICE_USD) as revenue, RESORT, DATE_TRUNC(day, PURCHASE_TIME) as d FROM RESORT_TICKET GROUP BY all;

CREATE OR REPLACE DYNAMIC TABLE SEASON_PASS_REVENUE_BY_MONTH TARGET_LAG='10 minutes' WAREHOUSE = STREAMING_INGEST AS
SELECT SUM(PRICE_USD) as revenue, DATE_TRUNC(month, PURCHASE_TIME) as m FROM SEASON_PASS GROUP BY all;

```

Commit message:

Backend logic improvements,  DT notebook, streamlit (#7)
* Reorg files, first pass of logic to improve analytics

* Various logic improvements to improve data

* Add transformation notebook

* Add streamlit app, pending migration into snowcli template

* Updaete readme

* fix versions, cleanup sql

* move out soln

---------

Co-authored-by: Brad Culberson <brad.culberson@snowflake.com>

README.md, after:

# Build a Streaming Data Pipeline in Python

In this hands-on lab, you'll build a production-ready streaming data pipeline using Python and Snowflake's new Rowset API. Learn how to efficiently ingest real-time data streams into Snowflake, create automated aggregations, and visualize insights through an interactive Streamlit application. You'll walk away with practical experience in modern data engineering techniques and a functional end-to-end pipeline that can handle continuous data flows at scale.

Docs for Snowpipe Streaming Rowset API Private Preview: https://docs.snowflake.com/en/LIMITEDACCESS/snowpipe-streaming-rowset-api/rowset-api-intro

## Database Setup

Create a database, schema, warehouse, role, and user called INGEST in your Snowflake account.

```sql
USE ROLE ACCOUNTADMIN;

CREATE WAREHOUSE IF NOT EXISTS STREAMING_INGEST;
CREATE ROLE IF NOT EXISTS STREAMING_INGEST;
GRANT USAGE ON WAREHOUSE STREAMING_INGEST TO ROLE STREAMING_INGEST;
GRANT OPERATE ON WAREHOUSE STREAMING_INGEST TO ROLE STREAMING_INGEST;
CREATE DATABASE IF NOT EXISTS STREAMING_INGEST;
USE DATABASE STREAMING_INGEST;
CREATE SCHEMA IF NOT EXISTS STREAMING_INGEST;
USE SCHEMA STREAMING_INGEST;
GRANT OWNERSHIP ON DATABASE STREAMING_INGEST TO ROLE STREAMING_INGEST;
GRANT OWNERSHIP ON SCHEMA STREAMING_INGEST.STREAMING_INGEST TO ROLE STREAMING_INGEST;

CREATE USER STREAMING_INGEST LOGIN_NAME='STREAMING_INGEST' DEFAULT_WAREHOUSE='STREAMING_INGEST', DEFAULT_NAMESPACE='STREAMING_INGEST.STREAMING_INGEST', DEFAULT_ROLE='STREAMING_INGEST', TYPE=SERVICE;
GRANT ROLE STREAMING_INGEST TO USER STREAMING_INGEST;
SET USERNAME=CURRENT_USER();
GRANT ROLE STREAMING_INGEST TO USER IDENTIFIER($USERNAME);

```

To generate a key pair for the INGEST user, run the following in your shell:

```sh
openssl genrsa 2048 | openssl pkcs8 -topk8 -inform PEM -out rsa_key.p8 -nocrypt
openssl rsa -in rsa_key.p8 -pubout -out rsa_key.pub
PUBK=`cat ./rsa_key.pub | grep -v KEY- | tr -d '\012'`
echo "ALTER USER STREAMING_INGEST SET RSA_PUBLIC_KEY='$PUBK';"
```

Run the sql from the output to set the RSA_PUBLIC_KEY for the INGEST user.

```sql
USE ROLE ACCOUNTADMIN;
ALTER USER STREAMING_INGEST SET RSA_PUBLIC_KEY=...;
```

Create the table and stream to land data from the API.

```sql
USE ROLE STREAMING_INGEST;
USE DATABASE STREAMING_INGEST;
USE SCHEMA STREAMING_INGEST;

CREATE OR REPLACE TABLE RESORT_TICKET(TXID varchar(255), RFID varchar(255), RESORT varchar(255), PURCHASE_TIME datetime, PRICE_USD DECIMAL(7,2), EXPIRATION_TIME date, DAYS number, NAME varchar(255), ADDRESS variant, PHONE varchar(255), EMAIL varchar(255), EMERGENCY_CONTACT variant);

CREATE OR REPLACE PIPE RESORT_TICKET_PIPE AS
COPY INTO RESORT_TICKET
FROM TABLE (
      DATA_SOURCE (
      TYPE => 'STREAMING'
  )
)
MATCH_BY_COLUMN_NAME=CASE_SENSITIVE;

CREATE OR REPLACE TABLE SEASON_PASS(TXID varchar(255), RFID varchar(255), PURCHASE_TIME datetime, PRICE_USD DECIMAL(7,2), EXPIRATION_TIME date, NAME varchar(255), ADDRESS variant, PHONE varchar(255), EMAIL varchar(255), EMERGENCY_CONTACT variant);

CREATE OR REPLACE PIPE SEASON_PASS_PIPE AS
COPY INTO SEASON_PASS
FROM TABLE (
      DATA_SOURCE (
      TYPE => 'STREAMING'
  )
)
MATCH_BY_COLUMN_NAME=CASE_SENSITIVE;

CREATE OR REPLACE TABLE LIFT_RIDE(TXID varchar(255), RFID varchar(255), RESORT varchar(255), LIFT varchar(255), RIDE_TIME datetime);

CREATE OR REPLACE PIPE LIFT_RIDE_PIPE AS
COPY INTO LIFT_RIDE
FROM TABLE (
      DATA_SOURCE (
      TYPE => 'STREAMING'
  )
)
MATCH_BY_COLUMN_NAME=CASE_SENSITIVE;

```

To get the private key for this user run the following in your shell:

```sh
PRVK=`cat ./rsa_key.p8`
echo "PRIVATE_KEY=\"$PRVK\""
```

Copy the .env.example to .env and modify the variables in your project

```
SNOWFLAKE_ACCOUNT=<ACCOUNT_HERE>
SNOWFLAKE_USER=STREAMING_INGEST
PRIVATE_KEY="-----BEGIN PRIVATE KEY-----
YOUR...
....KEY
....HERE==
-----END PRIVATE KEY-----
"
```

## Building the generator

```sh
docker compose build
```

## Starting the generator

```sh
docker compose up
```

## Create dynamic tables to prepare data for reporting

Please create a notebook in Snowflake by importing `transformation_notebook.ipynb`.  From there,  you will build out various dynamic tables to prepare the streaming data for reporting.

## Deploy Streamlit app to visualize the data

```bash
streamlit run streamlit_app.py
```

## Next Steps
- Migrate various SQL DTs to Snowpark and Pandas, to build more of the data pipeline in Python
- Deploy notebook via SnowCLI
- Migrate Streamlit app into project template 
- Deploy Streamlit app via SnowCLI
- Better purge data from generator to avoid large memory consumption over long simulations
- Fix the streamer loop to align with quickstart
